
My graph depicts the top 10 cities in U.S. with the most number of homeless. 

The main purpose of this graph is to show how New York City is exceptionally high in terms of homeless population comparing to other cities, leading to the social and economic of rationale of pursuing homeless relocation program such as Project Reconnect. 

I used a bar graph instead of a column graph because the graph will be extra wide just to fit all the cities names on the x-axis, hence crippling readability, especially on mobile. 

As a result, I used a bar graph and arranged each items from highest to lowest. 

I took out the x-axis and labeled each bar with the exact number of homeless using annotations. 

This is because the human eye is less aware of scale when comparing each bar’s length horizontally. 

It is cleaner and clearer by labeling the data directly on the bar. 

In addition, the bar graph reads from left to right, which is coherent in the layout of the article. 

The bar graph produces a natural staircase leading readers from headline smoothly to the text. 

A column graph will require the reader’s eyes to move from the X-axis and follow the bar to the top, leading reader attention away from the main text. 

Our graphs are akin to New York Time’s Upshot. Hence, muted green, purple, and black are primarily color pallets. 

They are more interesting “black on white” but still manage to maintain the formality one would expect from NYT. 

The data is from the 2014 Annual Homeless Assessment Report to Congress, published in October 2014. 

It was the most recent data I could find that incorporates story elements that I need. 

Many other publications also cited this report’s data, including Mother Jones. 

As a result, the data is creditable and essential in understanding U.S. homeless issue. 

The framing of the graph penetrate through the entire 12-grid system. While it is common to follow existing grid system, but breaking the grid occasionally, such in the case of N.Y.C’s homeless population, can serve a powerful narrative purpose: all the other cities don’t come even remotely close to N.Y.C.

Hence the graph demonstrates the severity of the situation. 
